# ESG_Rankings
Ranking investment portfolios by carbon footprint.

ESG, or Environmental, Social, and Governance, is an umbrella term for investing in funds that seeks both positive financial returns and long-term positive impacts. ESG investing is on the rise with more and more millennials starting to realise that some of their investments might not align with the values they hold. If you were to ask most people whether or not they would like to contribute to the destruction of our environment or try to help, you would think most would answer with the latter. Non profit organisations such as Invest Your Values are educating and empowering shareholders by showing them that they do not have to sacrifice returns by making their portfolios a little greener. “Most people would not choose to invest in the destruction of the Amazon rainforest, or to profit from climate change, but they unknowingly do.” - Invest Your Values

Most publicly traded companies are required to report their “carbon footprint” and the Environmental Protection Agency requires companies to have an approved plan for monitoring and reporting their emissions. This does not mean this data is easy to come by. It would be difficult for the average retail investor to figure out just how sustainable their portfolio is. Less than 1% of world companies are publicly traded and not surprisingly, the vast majority of companies do not report anything about their carbon footprint (this corresponds to roughly 20 to 40% of the average investment portfolio).

Thanks to organisations like Invest Your Values and MSCI, the average investor can exercise with a little more caution when it comes to their investment options. 

The dataset that I felt would best help me tackle the task was the Fossil Free Funds dataset from Invest Your Values. Fossil Free Funds sources financial data on equities and mutual funds from Morningstar. The dataset contains information on thousands of U.S. open-end and exchange traded mutual funds, some of the most common funds held in 401(k)s, 403(b)s, and other retirement plans. They update their database monthly to reflect updates to fund holdings. 
